backend/tests-backend/README.md, before:

# Backend Integration Runbook

Short guide for local backfills and parsing on the hosted Supabase database.
Run all commands below from `backend/`.

## Environment

- Uses `.env.live.local` by default (loaded in scripts).
- Optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM=YYYY-MM-DD`, `TO=YYYY-MM-DD`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.
- Reprocessing flags:
  - `FORCE_REPROCESS=1` for `pnpm test:azure-analyze` (ignores already-processed-file check).
  - `FORCE_REPARSE=1` for `pnpm test:azure-mappers` (rebuilds parsed_data for existing runs).

## Typical flow for bank statements

0) Seed analyze runs from existing live extractions (only if needed for historical docs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-analyze-runs`

1) Re-parse Azure analyze runs (updates `document_analyze_runs.parsed_data`).
   - `FORCE_REPARSE=1 pnpm test:azure-mappers`

2) Backfill extractions (writes `document_extractions.parsed_data` from analyze runs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-extractions`

3) Backfill bank transactions (writes `bank_transactions` from parsed extractions).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-bank-transactions`

## Typical flow for invoices/receipts

0) Seed analyze runs from existing live extractions (only if needed for historical docs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-analyze-runs`

1) Re-parse Azure analyze runs (if needed).
   - `FORCE_REPARSE=1 pnpm test:azure-mappers`

2) Backfill extractions (writes `document_extractions.parsed_data`).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-extractions`

3) Backfill invoices (writes `invoices` from parsed extractions).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-invoices`

## What each script does

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-analyze-cases.ts`
  Uploads PDFs/images from `tests-backend/documents-analyzes/azure-analyze/` to Supabase Storage,
  runs Azure Document Intelligence, detects document type, and applies the appropriate mapper.

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-mappers-cases.ts`
  Re-maps `document_analyze_runs.analyze_result` into `document_analyze_runs.parsed_data`.
  Use `FORCE_REPARSE=1` to re-run for all rows.
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-analyze-runs-from-extractions.ts`
  Seeds missing `document_analyze_runs` entries (`source=live_seed`) from existing
  `document_extractions.raw_result` for Azure-based live documents.
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`, `DRY_RUN=1`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-extractions-from-analyze.ts`
  Uses analyze runs to upsert `document_extractions` (parsed data + detection meta).
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-bank-transactions.ts`
  Takes `document_extractions.parsed_data.transactions` and upserts `bank_transactions`.
  Uses replace strategy (deletes existing rows per document, then upserts new ones).

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-invoices.ts`
  Takes invoice-like `document_extractions.parsed_data` and upserts `invoices`.

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-bank-statement-fx.test.ts`
  Deno unit tests for foreign currency detection and counterparty extraction in bank statement mapper.
  Includes Qonto DD/MM date format regression test.
  Run with: `deno test tests-backend/integration/azure-bank-statement-fx.test.ts --no-lock`

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-invoice-vendor-name.test.ts`
  Deno unit tests for vendor name extraction edge cases in invoice mapper.
  Covers single-char logo rejection (e.g. Notion "N"), short multi-char names (e.g. "DB"),
  and fallback through candidate list.
  Run with: `deno test tests-backend/integration/azure-invoice-vendor-name.test.ts --no-lock`

## Azure Mapper Architecture

The Azure mapping layer is in `supabase/functions/_shared/azure-mappers/` and uses a facade pattern:

- **`azure-mappers.ts`** — Facade, re-exports the 4 mapper functions.
- **`invoice-mapper.ts`** — Handles invoices (prebuilt-invoice model).
- **`receipt-mapper.ts`** — Handles receipts (prebuilt-receipt model).
- **`bank-statement-mapper.ts`** — Handles bank statements. Orchestrates three extraction paths:
  1. `extractTransactionsFromItems` — From Azure-extracted structured items.
  2. `extractTransactionsFromStatementLines` — From OCR line patterns.
  3. `extractTransactions` — Legacy fallback (single-line regex).
  Results from (1) and (2) are merged via `mergeBankStatementTransactions`.
- **`layout-mapper.ts`** — Fallback for generic layout analysis.

### Helper modules

- **`bank-statement-transactions.ts`** — Transaction extraction, merge logic, and reference block parsing:
  - `parseReferenceBlock()` — Parses multi-line reference blocks to extract counterparty name,
    BIC/IBAN, structured fields (EREF, MREF, CRED), value date, and clean reference text.
  - `extractCounterpartyName()` — Strips booking-type keywords (Gutschrift, Lastschrift, etc.)
    from description text. Handles keywords both at the start and mid-string (e.g. when Azure
    merges reference noise from a previous transaction into the current description).
  - `classifyBookingType()` — Maps German transaction types (FOLGELASTSCHRIFT, GUTSCHRIFT, etc.)
    to semantic booking types (direct_debit, transfer, fee, card_payment, interest).
  - `isDateOnlyLine()` — Detects standalone date lines (DD.MM.YYYY, DD/MM, DD.MM) to filter
    them from description lines. Supports both dot and slash separators (e.g. Qonto format).
  - `lineStartsWithDate()` — Strict date matching (only lines starting with a date), used to
    prevent value dates in parentheses from being misidentified as transaction boundaries.
  - `findTransactionBlock()` — Locates OCR lines for a given transaction (date + amount).
    Scans all matching date lines before falling back to `amountMatched: false`, avoiding
    false locks on value date lines in reference blocks.
  - `isStatementBoilerplateLine()` — Detects bank statement page headers, footers, balance
    summaries, legal text, and barcode IDs. Used as a stop-signal when collecting reference
    blocks to prevent page-break noise from bleeding into transaction data.
  - `mergeBankStatementTransactions()` — Deduplicates and merges items-based and line-based
    transactions using date+amount matching and text similarity scoring. Post-merge filter
    removes unmatched lines whose date+absolute amount matches any items-sourced transaction,
    catching phantom lines (ING value-date echoes) and opposite-sign duplicates (Qonto
    Eingänge/Ausgänge sections).
- **`bank-statement-fx.ts`** — Foreign currency detection and exchange rate extraction.
- **`parse-utils.ts`** — Shared parsing (dates, amounts, IBAN, BIC, currency, text normalization).
  - `extractIban()` — Two-stage IBAN extraction with length validation (15-34 chars) and
    trailing-alpha rejection (prevents e.g. "DE70...DATUM" corruption).
  - `extractIbanFromLine()` — Per-line IBAN extraction for counterparty IBANs.
- **`azure-field-helpers.ts`** — Type definitions and field accessors for Azure response format.
- **`party-extraction.ts`** — Vendor/buyer name extraction from OCR text.
  - `cleanPartyName()` — Normalizes and validates party name candidates. Rejects single-character
    values (e.g. logo letters like "N" misidentified by Azure DI), metadata lines, and invoice numbers.
- **`installment-plan.ts`** — Tax installment plan and invoice number extraction.

## Data flow

```
PDF/Image → Azure Document Intelligence → analyze_result (JSON)
         → document_analyze_runs.parsed_data (via mapper)
         → document_extractions.parsed_data (via backfill-extractions)
         → bank_transactions / invoices (via backfill scripts)
```

Live `process-document` writes `document_extractions` directly and now also persists
Azure-based runs in `document_analyze_runs` (`source=live_process`) for reprocessing.

## Notes

- `bank_transactions` and `invoices` are derived tables.
- If `document_extractions.parsed_data` is empty or missing fields, downstream
  backfills will insert nothing.
- `pnpm test:azure-analyze` uploads local fixture files from
  `tests-backend/documents-analyzes/azure-analyze/`.
- For already uploaded Supabase documents, prefer calling Edge Function
  `process-document` with `documentId` to avoid duplicate uploads.
- Test fixture: `JK_Bank_Example.pdf` — 9 transactions (Kontoauszug 12/2014),
  used as reference for bank statement mapping quality validation.

Commit message:

feat: Enhance document processing and transaction handling
- Update .gitignore to include task tracking directory.
- Add AGENTS.md to define source of truth and conflict rules.
- Expand CLAUDE.md with detailed workflow orchestration and task management guidelines.
- Improve transaction matching logic in bank-statement-transactions.ts to handle closer date lines.
- Refactor document type detection to include anti-statement keywords.
- Introduce shared upsert-helpers.ts for common utility functions.
- Modify process-document/index.ts to utilize new helper functions and streamline transaction handling.
- Update integration tests for bank transactions and invoices to reflect new logic and structure.
- Refactor live-replay.ts to simplify tenant ID resolution and improve clarity.

backend/tests-backend/README.md, after:

# Backend Integration Runbook

Short guide for local backfills and parsing on the hosted Supabase database.
Run all commands below from `backend/`.

## Environment

- Uses `.env.live.local` by default (loaded in scripts).
- Optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM=YYYY-MM-DD`, `TO=YYYY-MM-DD`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.
- Reprocessing flags:
  - `FORCE_REPROCESS=1` for `pnpm test:azure-analyze` (ignores already-processed-file check).
  - `FORCE_REPARSE=1` for `pnpm test:azure-mappers` (rebuilds parsed_data for existing runs).

## Typical flow for bank statements

0) Seed analyze runs from existing live extractions (only if needed for historical docs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-analyze-runs`

1) Re-parse Azure analyze runs (updates `document_analyze_runs.parsed_data`).
   - `FORCE_REPARSE=1 pnpm test:azure-mappers`

2) Backfill extractions (writes `document_extractions.parsed_data` from analyze runs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-extractions`

3) Backfill bank transactions (writes `bank_transactions` from parsed extractions).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-bank-transactions`

## Typical flow for invoices/receipts

0) Seed analyze runs from existing live extractions (only if needed for historical docs).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-analyze-runs`

1) Re-parse Azure analyze runs (if needed).
   - `FORCE_REPARSE=1 pnpm test:azure-mappers`

2) Backfill extractions (writes `document_extractions.parsed_data`).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-extractions`

3) Backfill invoices (writes `invoices` from parsed extractions).
   - `pnpm test:backfill-invoices`

## What each script does

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-analyze-cases.ts`
  Uploads PDFs/images from `tests-backend/documents-analyzes/azure-analyze/` to Supabase Storage,
  runs Azure Document Intelligence, detects document type, and applies the appropriate mapper.

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-mappers-cases.ts`
  Re-maps `document_analyze_runs.analyze_result` into `document_analyze_runs.parsed_data`.
  Use `FORCE_REPARSE=1` to re-run for all rows.
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-analyze-runs-from-extractions.ts`
  Seeds missing `document_analyze_runs` entries (`source=live_seed`) from existing
  `document_extractions.raw_result` for Azure-based live documents.
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`, `DRY_RUN=1`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-extractions-from-analyze.ts`
  Uses analyze runs to upsert `document_extractions` (parsed data + detection meta).
  Supports optional filters: `TENANT_ID`, `FROM`, `TO`, `LIMIT_DOCS`.

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-bank-transactions.ts`
  Takes `document_extractions.parsed_data.transactions` and upserts `bank_transactions`.
  Uses replace strategy (deletes existing rows per document, then upserts new ones).

- `tests-backend/integration/backfill-invoices.ts`
  Takes invoice-like `document_extractions.parsed_data` and upserts `invoices`.

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-bank-statement-fx.test.ts`
  Deno unit tests for foreign currency detection and counterparty extraction in bank statement mapper.
  Includes Qonto DD/MM date format regression test.
  Run with: `deno test tests-backend/integration/azure-bank-statement-fx.test.ts --no-lock`

- `tests-backend/integration/azure-invoice-vendor-name.test.ts`
  Deno unit tests for vendor name extraction edge cases in invoice mapper.
  Covers single-char logo rejection (e.g. Notion "N"), short multi-char names (e.g. "DB"),
  and fallback through candidate list.
  Run with: `deno test tests-backend/integration/azure-invoice-vendor-name.test.ts --no-lock`

## Azure Mapper Architecture

The Azure mapping layer is in `supabase/functions/_shared/azure-mappers/` and uses a facade pattern:

- **`azure-mappers.ts`** — Facade, re-exports the 4 mapper functions.
- **`invoice-mapper.ts`** — Handles invoices (prebuilt-invoice model).
- **`receipt-mapper.ts`** — Handles receipts (prebuilt-receipt model).
- **`bank-statement-mapper.ts`** — Handles bank statements. Orchestrates three extraction paths:
  1. `extractTransactionsFromItems` — From Azure-extracted structured items.
  2. `extractTransactionsFromStatementLines` — From OCR line patterns.
  3. `extractTransactions` — Legacy fallback (single-line regex).
  Results from (1) and (2) are merged via `mergeBankStatementTransactions`.
- **`layout-mapper.ts`** — Fallback for generic layout analysis.

### Helper modules

- **`bank-statement-transactions.ts`** — Transaction extraction, merge logic, and reference block parsing:
  - `parseReferenceBlock()` — Parses multi-line reference blocks to extract counterparty name,
    BIC/IBAN, structured fields (EREF, MREF, CRED), value date, and clean reference text.
  - `extractCounterpartyName()` — Strips booking-type keywords (Gutschrift, Lastschrift, etc.)
    from description text. Handles keywords both at the start and mid-string (e.g. when Azure
    merges reference noise from a previous transaction into the current description).
  - `classifyBookingType()` — Maps German transaction types (FOLGELASTSCHRIFT, GUTSCHRIFT, etc.)
    to semantic booking types (direct_debit, transfer, fee, card_payment, interest).
  - `isDateOnlyLine()` — Detects standalone date lines (DD.MM.YYYY, DD/MM, DD.MM) to filter
    them from description lines. Supports both dot and slash separators (e.g. Qonto format).
  - `lineStartsWithDate()` — Strict date matching (only lines starting with a date), used to
    prevent value dates in parentheses from being misidentified as transaction boundaries.
  - `findTransactionBlock()` — Locates OCR lines for a given transaction (date + amount).
    When multiple date lines match within the lookahead window, picks the **closest** date
    to the amount line. This prevents valuta dates of previous transactions from being
    mistaken as the block start (e.g. ING statements where all transactions share the
    same booking date). Falls back to `amountMatched: false` if no amount match is found.
  - `isStatementBoilerplateLine()` — Detects bank statement page headers, footers, balance
    summaries, legal text, and barcode IDs. Used as a stop-signal when collecting reference
    blocks to prevent page-break noise from bleeding into transaction data.
  - `mergeBankStatementTransactions()` — Deduplicates and merges items-based and line-based
    transactions using date+amount matching and text similarity scoring. Post-merge filter
    removes unmatched lines whose date+absolute amount matches any items-sourced transaction,
    catching phantom lines (ING value-date echoes) and opposite-sign duplicates (Qonto
    Eingänge/Ausgänge sections).
- **`bank-statement-fx.ts`** — Foreign currency detection and exchange rate extraction.
- **`parse-utils.ts`** — Shared parsing (dates, amounts, IBAN, BIC, currency, text normalization).
  - `extractIban()` — Two-stage IBAN extraction with length validation (15-34 chars) and
    trailing-alpha rejection (prevents e.g. "DE70...DATUM" corruption).
  - `extractIbanFromLine()` — Per-line IBAN extraction for counterparty IBANs.
- **`azure-field-helpers.ts`** — Type definitions and field accessors for Azure response format.
- **`party-extraction.ts`** — Vendor/buyer name extraction from OCR text.
  - `cleanPartyName()` — Normalizes and validates party name candidates. Rejects single-character
    values (e.g. logo letters like "N" misidentified by Azure DI), metadata lines, and invoice numbers.
- **`installment-plan.ts`** — Tax installment plan and invoice number extraction.
- **`upsert-helpers.ts`** — Shared utility functions used by both the Edge Function
  (`process-document`) and Node.js backfill scripts:
  - `normalizeString()` — Trims whitespace, returns null for empty/non-string values.
  - `coerceDate()` — Parses ISO, DD.MM.YYYY, and YYYYMMDD date formats to `YYYY-MM-DD`.
  - `toNumber()` — Converts number/string values (handles German comma decimals).
  - `buildTransactionReference()` — Prefers dedicated reference field over description.

## Data flow

```
PDF/Image → Azure Document Intelligence → analyze_result (JSON)
         → document_analyze_runs.parsed_data (via mapper)
         → document_extractions.parsed_data (via backfill-extractions)
         → bank_transactions / invoices (via backfill scripts)
```

Live `process-document` writes `document_extractions` directly and now also persists
Azure-based runs in `document_analyze_runs` (`source=live_process`) for reprocessing.

## Notes

- `bank_transactions` and `invoices` are derived tables.
- If `document_extractions.parsed_data` is empty or missing fields, downstream
  backfills will insert nothing.
- `pnpm test:azure-analyze` uploads local fixture files from
  `tests-backend/documents-analyzes/azure-analyze/`.
- For already uploaded Supabase documents, prefer calling Edge Function
  `process-document` with `documentId` to avoid duplicate uploads.
- Test fixture: `JK_Bank_Example.pdf` — 9 transactions (Kontoauszug 12/2014),
  used as reference for bank statement mapping quality validation.
